CJ docs edits (#23)
leaningtech/labs.leaningtech.com: src/content/docs/cheerpj3/10-getting-started/03-JNLP.md

---
title: Run a JNLP

> description: Run a JNLP application in the browser (setup)

Reviewer: Make sure to mention Java Web Start somewhere

---

This quickstart tutorial will take you step by step on the things you need to setup before running your JNLP app in the browser with CheerpJ.

You will need:

- The application `.jnlp` file.

## 1. The `.jnlp` file

The `.jnlp` file contains the specifics of how to launch your Java application. The usual pipeline starts when this file is triggered from a website so it is passed to the user's local JNLP client which downloads the application `.jar` files and further resources. Finally, the app is executed with the local JRE installation. **With CheerpJ it is possible to run this application in the browser sandbox, no Java installation required.**

Your `.jnlp` file might look something like the example below. There are two essential elements you need to find:

1. The `.jar` files specified under the `<resources>` element, usually indicated with a `<jar>` or `<nativelib>` tags.
2. Your application type. Seek for ` <application-desc>` or `<applet-desc>` tag.

> 3. You may need the `codebase` URL at `<jnlp>`

Reviewer: It's awkward having a third point here given that you just said they need "two essential elements"

```xml title="example.jnlp" {5, 22-23, 26}
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- JNLP Example -->
<jnlp
  spec="1.0+"
  codebase="code-base-url"
  href="example.jnlp">
  <information>

>     <title>Your application name </title>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <title>Your application name</title>
```

    <vendor>Vendor name</vendor>
    <homepage href="home-page-url"/>
    <description>Description of your Java application</description>

>     <description kind="short">Another description of your Java application </description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <description kind="short">Another description of your Java application</description>
```

---
title: Run a JNLP
description: Run a JWS/JNLP application in the browser
---

This quickstart tutorial will take you step by step on how to run your JNLP app (also known as Java Web Start application) in the browser with CheerpJ.

You will need:

- The application `.jnlp` file.
- An HTML file where your Java app will be wrapped.
- A simple HTTP server to test your webpage locally.

## 1. The `.jnlp` file

The `.jnlp` file contains the specifics of how to launch your Java application. The usual pipeline starts when this file is triggered from a website so it is passed to the user's local JNLP client which downloads the application `.jar` files and further resources. Finally, the app is executed with the local JRE installation. **With CheerpJ it is possible to run this application in the browser sandbox, no Java installation required.**

Your `.jnlp` file might look something like the example below. There are three essential elements you need to find:

1. The `.jar` files specified under the `<resources>` element, usually indicated with a `<jar>` or `<nativelib>` tags.

> 2. Your application type. Seek for ` <application-desc>` or `<applet-desc>` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Your application type. Look for an `<application-desc>` or `<applet-desc>` tag.
```

> 3. You may need the `codebase` URL at `<jnlp>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You may need the `codebase` URL given by `<jnlp>`.
```
